README.md, before:

# Google Tasks MCP Server

![gtasks mcp logo](./logo.jpg)
[![smithery badge](https://smithery.ai/badge/@zcaceres/gtasks)](https://smithery.ai/server/@zcaceres/gtasks)

This MCP server integrates with Google Tasks to allow listing, reading, searching, creating, updating, and deleting tasks.

## Components

### Tools

- **search**
  - Search for tasks in Google Tasks
  - Input: `query` (string): Search query
  - Returns matching tasks with details

- **list**
  - List all tasks in Google Tasks
  - Optional input: `cursor` (string): Cursor for pagination
  - Returns a list of all tasks

- **create**
  - Create a new task in Google Tasks
  - Input:
    - `taskListId` (string, optional): Task list ID
    - `title` (string, required): Task title
    - `notes` (string, optional): Task notes
    - `due` (string, optional): Due date
  - Returns confirmation of task creation

- **update**
  - Update an existing task in Google Tasks
  - Input:
    - `taskListId` (string, optional): Task list ID
    - `id` (string, required): Task ID
    - `uri` (string, required): Task URI
    - `title` (string, optional): New task title
    - `notes` (string, optional): New task notes
    - `status` (string, optional): New task status ("needsAction" or "completed")
    - `due` (string, optional): New due date
  - Returns confirmation of task update

- **delete**
  - Delete a task in Google Tasks
  - Input:
    - `taskListId` (string, required): Task list ID
    - `id` (string, required): Task ID
  - Returns confirmation of task deletion

- **clear**
  - Clear completed tasks from a Google Tasks task list
  - Input: `taskListId` (string, required): Task list ID
  - Returns confirmation of cleared tasks

### Resources

The server provides access to Google Tasks resources:

- **Tasks** (`gtasks:///<task_id>`)
  - Represents individual tasks in Google Tasks
  - Supports reading task details including title, status, due date, notes, and other metadata
  - Can be listed, read, created, updated, and deleted using the provided tools

## Getting started

1. [Create a new Google Cloud project](https://console.cloud.google.com/projectcreate)
2. [Enable the Google Tasks API](https://console.cloud.google.com/workspace-api/products)
3. [Configure an OAuth consent screen](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials/consent) ("internal" is fine for testing)
4. Add scopes `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/tasks`
5. [Create an OAuth Client ID](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials/oauthclient) for application type "Desktop App"
6. Download the JSON file of your client's OAuth keys
7. Rename the key file to `gcp-oauth.keys.json` and place into the root of this repo (i.e. `gcp-oauth.keys.json`)

Make sure to build the server with either `npm run build` or `npm run watch`.

### Installing via Smithery

To install Google Tasks Server for Claude Desktop automatically via [Smithery](https://smithery.ai/server/@zcaceres/gtasks):

```bash
npx -y @smithery/cli install @zcaceres/gtasks --client claude
```

### Authentication

To authenticate and save credentials:

1. Run the server with the `auth` argument: `npm run start auth`
2. This will open an authentication flow in your system browser
3. Complete the authentication process
4. Credentials will be saved in the root of this repo (i.e. `.gdrive-server-credentials.json`)

### Usage with Desktop App

To integrate this server with the desktop app, add the following to your app's server configuration:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "gtasks": {
      "command": "/opt/homebrew/bin/node",
      "args": [
        "{ABSOLUTE PATH TO FILE HERE}/dist/index.js"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Add Railway deployment support for Google Tasks MCP server
- Add HTTP server wrapper for Railway deployment
- Support both web and desktop OAuth clients
- Add environment variable support for credentials
- Include Railway configuration files
- Update documentation with deployment instructions
- Add OAuth keys example file
- Improve .gitignore for OAuth files

README.md, after:

# Google Tasks MCP Server

![gtasks mcp logo](./logo.jpg)
[![smithery badge](https://smithery.ai/badge/@zcaceres/gtasks)](https://smithery.ai/server/@zcaceres/gtasks)

This MCP server integrates with Google Tasks to allow listing, reading, searching, creating, updating, and deleting tasks.

## Components

### Tools

- **search**
  - Search for tasks in Google Tasks
  - Input: `query` (string): Search query
  - Returns matching tasks with details

- **list**
  - List all tasks in Google Tasks
  - Optional input: `cursor` (string): Cursor for pagination
  - Returns a list of all tasks

- **create**
  - Create a new task in Google Tasks
  - Input:
    - `taskListId` (string, optional): Task list ID
    - `title` (string, required): Task title
    - `notes` (string, optional): Task notes
    - `due` (string, optional): Due date
  - Returns confirmation of task creation

- **update**
  - Update an existing task in Google Tasks
  - Input:
    - `taskListId` (string, optional): Task list ID
    - `id` (string, required): Task ID
    - `uri` (string, required): Task URI
    - `title` (string, optional): New task title
    - `notes` (string, optional): New task notes
    - `status` (string, optional): New task status ("needsAction" or "completed")
    - `due` (string, optional): New due date
  - Returns confirmation of task update

- **delete**
  - Delete a task in Google Tasks
  - Input:
    - `taskListId` (string, required): Task list ID
    - `id` (string, required): Task ID
  - Returns confirmation of task deletion

- **clear**
  - Clear completed tasks from a Google Tasks task list
  - Input: `taskListId` (string, required): Task list ID
  - Returns confirmation of cleared tasks

### Resources

The server provides access to Google Tasks resources:

- **Tasks** (`gtasks:///<task_id>`)
  - Represents individual tasks in Google Tasks
  - Supports reading task details including title, status, due date, notes, and other metadata
  - Can be listed, read, created, updated, and deleted using the provided tools

## Getting started

1. [Create a new Google Cloud project](https://console.cloud.google.com/projectcreate)
2. [Enable the Google Tasks API](https://console.cloud.google.com/workspace-api/products)
3. [Configure an OAuth consent screen](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials/consent) ("internal" is fine for testing)
4. Add scopes `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/tasks`
5. [Create an OAuth Client ID](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials/oauthclient) for application type "Desktop App" (for local MCP usage) or "Web Application" (for Railway deployment)
6. Download the JSON file of your client's OAuth keys
7. Rename the key file to `gcp-oauth.keys.json` and place into the root of this repo (i.e. `gcp-oauth.keys.json`)

Make sure to build the server with either `npm run build` or `npm run watch`.

### Installing via Smithery

To install Google Tasks Server for Claude Desktop automatically via [Smithery](https://smithery.ai/server/@zcaceres/gtasks):

```bash
npx -y @smithery/cli install @zcaceres/gtasks --client claude
```

### Authentication

To authenticate and save credentials:

1. Run the server with the `auth` argument: `npm run start auth`
2. This will open an authentication flow in your system browser
3. Complete the authentication process
4. Credentials will be saved in the root of this repo (i.e. `.gdrive-server-credentials.json`)

### Usage with Desktop App

To integrate this server with the desktop app, add the following to your app's server configuration:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "gtasks": {
      "command": "/opt/homebrew/bin/node",
      "args": [
        "{ABSOLUTE PATH TO FILE HERE}/dist/index.js"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

### Railway Deployment

This server can also be deployed to Railway.com as a REST API. See [RAILWAY_DEPLOYMENT.md](./RAILWAY_DEPLOYMENT.md) for detailed instructions.
